In the paper describing ASOCCA (Pan, X., Xu, G., Wang, B., & Zhang, T. (2019). A Novel Community Detection Algorithm Based on Local Similarity of Clustering Coefficient in Social Networks. IEEE Access, 7, 121586-121598. doi:10.1109/access.2019.2937580) (Adjacent Node Similarity Optimization Combination Connectivity Algorithm) the authors base their work on well known metrics and measures used in social network analysis. A key part for ASOCCA implementation is the usage of clustering coefficient of adjacent nodes. The most important metric though, in ASOCCA’s implementation is the similarity between adjacent nodes, this is the factor that is used to decide which nodes belong to the same communities. The authors of the paper experiment with various similarity indices like Salton index, Jaccard index, Sørensen index and Resource Allocation (RA) index. The best results occurred when a new definition of similarity, introduced in the paper, was used. This newly defined similarity index decides the degree of similarity between two nodes based on the sum of the local clustering coefficients of their common neighbors. Thus, the accumulated value of similarity of two nodes is determined by two aspects: the number of common neighbors and the clustering coefficient of each common neighbor.

As for the evaluation of ASOCCA’s performance, the modularity measure was used. The final partition of a graph given as input to the algorithm, is decided through an iterative process, which as a final result returns the partition with the highest modularity value. It is worth to be noticed that the ground truth partition (when there is one) is not always the one with the highest modularity and that is something that the authors also comment in their work. Six well known datasets were used in the process of evaluating the algorithm’s performance. Three of them with ground truth communities (karate, dolphins and pol books) and three with no ground truth (facebook, internet and amazon).

The structure of the paper, using examples, charts and matrixes made the implementation and reproduction of the results stated in the paper relatively easy. Despite that, the pseudocode was not very specific and some serious ambiguities in handling certain issues (like isolated nodes) were found during the process of implementing the algorithm. Thus, improvements and modifications of the original work described in the paper were necessary. The process of implementing the algorithm, the improvements and the final outcome are described in detail below.

Two issues were found in the paper’s pseudocode. The first one, was that there was no provision for handling cases were an edge was connecting a node with itself. To tackle this issue it was considered that this edge beard no information regarding similarity of two nodes and cases like this were not taken into account in the calculations of the various algorithm’s stages (calculation of clustering coefficient, similarity index, most similar nodes etc.). The second and maybe the most serious omission was that there was no provision regarding isolated nodes for the creation of the final partition of the graph. The paper’s pseudocode did not take such nodes into account. In order to tackle this issue, it was considered that since the whole algorithm is based on similarity of adjacent nodes, it is justified to assume that an isolated node with no edges or neighbors, is not similar to any other node. Thus, for the final partition, each isolated node formed its own community. The two approaches described above, not only had no impact on the results of the paper’s datasets but also, gave the algorithm the necessary functionality to process datasets with isolated nodes and nodes with edges to themselves.
